All right before we get painting on our Saward we want to make sure that everything looks good to us.
So as I was looking at this between lectures I thought that the sword looked a little bit too skinny
and I thought this bottom part of the sword looks too big.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to first transform this layer that my blade is on and I'm just
going to stretch it out like so and holding down old While I do that.
That's going to stretch it out on both sides.
So I'm going to stretch it out to about.
There should be good.
Maybe one more.
See how that looks.
All right.
Delex get to enter then.
I'm going to shrink my handle down and my butt down too.
So I'm going to go find those layers.
Sozzi.
There's one of them and then that one that I'm going to select all of those trim a Transform Tool on
and hold down shift and all at the same time to shrink it from the middle and also shrink it in proportion.
So shrink it to right about there should be good.
And I'm going to stretch it up like so because I want my handle to still be as long as it was before
and I might drag that down a little bit.
All right.
Great.
Let's enter.
Perfect.
I like that shape much better.
Now let's go ahead and get painting.
So we're going to start with the blood of the sword.
Someone to go find my bottom layer for that which is that guy.
And I'll add a new layer above that and then I'm going to Right-Click and turn that into a clipping
layer mask.
Then I can go ahead and zoom in there and begin to paint.
So I'm going to grab the color white because our metal is going to be completely silver.
And so we're going to use white as a base highlight color.
Then I'm to bring my brush opacity down to 20 percent and then I'll begin painting.
So I'm going to start by adding a highlight to this top area like so because the light would probably
be hitting it would be seen just the very ledge of that then I'm going go ahead and add another layer
on top of that like so to really start bringing in that silver color.
And what we want to do from here is since this is going to be cylinder shaped We want the highlight
to be in the middle to be the brightest and the further out it goes.
It needs to get darker.
So I'll start out here like so coming right up to the edge Maleev in a little bit of a dark area on
the edge and then I'm going to add another one a little bit further in and I'll keep doing this.
And if you miss a few spots like I did back there that's fine.
That's just going to add more texture to your artwork.
Now we want to keep doing this until this middle area is basically as white as it can be.
And we can add a little bit more on the outer edge area.
So just like so now I think I got that outer edge area a little bit too dark.
So go ahead and slide my dark gray and paint a little bit of that back in.
And then I might add a little bit of a shadow down here and a little bit of texture just because it
may be reflecting the top surface of this piece of metal.
So that's why we're adding that in then.
Let's go ahead and select white and we're going to repaint in this top area.
So
perfect.
Now let's move down to the bottom area.
So I'm going to add some paint in Mike so I might add a little bit more in like so and then there's
going to be a little bit of a shadow being cast from this large piece of metal on top of it.
So I'm going to start adding paint in right in the middle like so.
So we're not going have a shadow on this bottom part because as it turns into the bottom it's going
to create a little bit more of a shadow.
And we're also going to have less light underneath here.
Like I said that because there's going to be a cast shadows.
So that's why we're only painting through this middle area and then we want to start painting in the
center only and really start making that white
grid.
Now I got these edges a little bit to light again so I'm going to go and slide my dark gray color and
start painting that in
next.
You don't want to do is I want to grab a darker version of this gray.
So come down to about there and I might add a little bit more shadow underneath here.
Now we're going to add a little bit of rust to our sword.
So I'm going to come into my colors and I'm we're first going to start off with sort of an orange ish
red color and we're going to make it really bright.
So somewhere in there.
OK.
Then using a brush tool and still being at 20 percent opacity.
We're going to go ahead and start painting in this bottom area like so.
So that's our first layer of the rust color.
Now let's go ahead and switch back in there and let's come a little bit more towards the yellowish oranges
and we're going to bring this down a little bit darker and a little bit more saturated.
OK.
And we're going to brush a little bit more of that in.
And then lastly we're going to grab an even darker version of that.
So some are way over here.
More saturated and way more darker than I'm going to bring my brush opacity up to 80 percent and I'm
going to go ahead and paint in some small spots down here like so.
And that Brown might be a little bit too dark so I'm going to light in that a little bit more about
there.
I'm hoping that in.
Cool.
So that just adds a little bit more texture and something a little bit more interesting to look at.
When you look at the sword it gives a lot more character.
Now let's go ahead and move on to this part of the sword so I'm going to come up to that layer which
is this one right here and I'll add a new layer above that.
Right click and create clipping mask that I'm going to switch back over to my right color.
And then will start off with the top part.
So will add a highlight across there.
And then we can go ahead and start adding in the center area.
So the more interesting brushstrokes you can do and the more squealy it looks and whatever the more
interesting your painting is going to look.
So I do suggest that you try to keep it relatively messy even though you still want it to look realistic.
You also want it to have that painting style.
So it's OK if you keep it pretty messy.
Then I'm going to go ahead and Reesa like this.
Dirk gray and I'm going to go ahead and start painting some of that shadow back onto my edge.
So
great then I'm going to go ahead and select my rust color.
So I'm going to come into my reddish oranges come up to about there and then I'll go ahead and start
painting that I'm on the bottom.
It's like so.
And then we'll grab a little bit darker version of that maybe a little bit more towards the yellows
and go ahead and paint that and.
And then I'm going to go ahead and grab that even Durka version of that.
Somewhere in there and then put my brush opacity at 80 percent.
I'm going to go ahead and paint in those little small rust spots and I can even bring my brush opacity
down to 40 percent to get some that are a little less strong.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and continue painting this and working with it until we get it looking the way we
want.
So what I'm going to do first is I'm going to select this mid color right here.
Then switching back over to my brush and putting my brush opacity at 100 percent.
I'm going to go ahead and kind of paint that area and with a solid gray color I'm going to go ahead
and select the next light color and I'll go ahead and paint that area.
And so on both sides I'm going to select this color over here and paint in this area.
And this just makes it look a lot more like paint rather than painting with transparence you're painting
with opaque colors and that gives a lot more of a realistic painting look then I can go ahead and do
the same down here.
So it's like that color paint some of that and then I'm to go ahead and like this Sturk gray color and
paint my Greyback in on the edge and I put my brush rapacity at 20 percent and I might paint a little
bit more into these bottom areas like so
awesome.
Now I'm going to switch back over to my white and kind of blend this in just a little bit more with
my brush being at 20 percent.
Perfect And lastly I want to go ahead and add that white back in at the top.
So when I put my brush at 80 percent and I'll go ahead and paint that back in just like so I might have
a little bit come down the edge.
Also next let's switch back down to the layer that we were painting before and we're just going to add
a few more touches and highlights.
So still does using my white brush.
I'll just add those in and then I might grab some of these mid colors and then putting my brush at 100
percent.
I'll go ahead and paint some of those colors in just to give it some more opaqueness.
Let's go ahead and zoom out and see how that looks.
I think we could use a little bit more shadow underneath here.
I'm going to go ahead and zoom in and on the Slayer I'll go ahead and select this dark gray color.
Go ahead and paint some of that in like so then I'm going to go ahead and select this demagoguery color
and I may add that back in right there and I might add some of that more dark gray on these edges.
And also along the bottom pretty my brush capacity at 20 percent.
I'll just paint some of that as we get a little bit more of a shadow on that bottom area and I might
add a little bit more shadow on this edge also.
And right there and then I think the rust is a little bit too much on the top part.
So don't go and switch over to that layer like my white.
Go ahead and sort of blend that and more down here towards the bottom.
Great.
And we have this really cool metal look for the butt of our sort.
So let's zoom out and see how that looks.
Perfect.
Now let's go ahead and paint the handle for a sword.
So let's zoom in there find that layer.
So come down sit right there.
Well add a new layer above it and you create a clipping mask.
Then I'm going to go ahead and select this color we have there and I'm going to find a lighter version
of that.
And I'm also going to make it a little bit warmer but coming up just a little bit more towards my reds.
And then we can go ahead and use or paint brush and at 20 percent opacity I'm going to go ahead and
paint in some large areas where I want each band to be.
And these are the bands that are going to be wrapped around the handle
grit.
Now let's go ahead and keep layering those.
And we want the center just like the metal part to be the lightest part.
And as it gets more to the edge it's going to round around our form.
And so it's going to get more Shatto.
Also the light source is going to be coming from the top.
And so we're going to add a little bit more highlight on the top of each one of these drapped
grit.
Now let's go ahead and switch over to even the lighter version of this.
So somewhere about there maybe just the tiniest bit more towards the Reds.
Okay.
And then we're going to go ahead and bring a burst size down and we're going to mostly paint on this
top area like so
we're going to leave this area out because it's going to have a cast shadow on it.
So right about here and up.
You're not going to see any highlights so I might add a little bit of a highlight right there.
But everything about that is not going to get any more highlight.
Right.
Great.
Next let's go ahead and grab a really highlight highlight color.
So I'm going to come way up here and then I'm gonna come way more into my oranges.
I want this to almost be a peach color.
Maybe a little bit more towards the saturated side and a little bit down towards the Reds somewhere
about there.
Now I'm going to go ahead and start painting those highlights in.
And that's still not really saturated enough for me so I'm gonna straight that color even more perfect.
Let's go ahead and start painting with that.
I think that looks much better.
Then let's scrub this middle color right there.
And lots of light and that little bit because I think we need to more highlight in there.
It's a little bit too dark and we're not giving it enough for someone to go ahead and start painting
that in like so
next I'm going to grab shadow collars and grab our Made color or background color.
I'm going to bring that down so it's even darker maybe a little bit more towards the purples then we're
going to go ahead and start brushing with that brush along these edges like so.
Also add a shadow up here.
Like I said there's going to be a drop shadow so we can add that in right now.
We might add a little bit shadow around here and then we're going to bring some of that shadow into
these creases on both sides.
Perfect.
Then I'm going to go ahead and grab this peach highlight color and I'm just going to add one last really
bright highlight for that summer about there.
And I'm going to put my brush capacity at 50 percent and I'll go ahead and paint in a really bright
one on top of each one of these.
It's like so
now we can go ahead and select these colors and start painting with them at 100 percent opacity so I
might fill in that area and that area with the color same with there and there.
Then I selected this middle color.
Paint this area and again this is just to make it look more like a real painting.
And then down here at the bottom areas are going to go ahead and select that mid color.
So like right there then I'll go ahead and paint that in there just to blend that in a little bit more.
Now we can add a few more things to make it a little bit more interesting and we can add more texture
in there by painting lines like so you know kind of getting more into the shadows with the lighter colors
and then grabbing the shadows and getting more into the lighter colors with those colors.
So I'm
just a little bit more interesting.
All right that brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to paint the butt of your sword and the handle of your sword.
So just remember it's just like when we painted our other hand-painted assets that you want to start
with your darker colors and then you want to start layering those up with highlighted colors.
Thanks for watching this lecture.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next one.